add quickstart with flightdata and Tableau (#5)
hologres/hologres-doc: doc/source/quickstart/quickstart-Hologres.md

# Welcome to Hologres

Welcome to Hologres,wait for more ideas from you!

- Hologres Introduction
- Data Preparation
- Hologres Initialization
- Data Uploading
- Query Time
- Commands in Linux and SQL 

## Hologres Introduction

Hologres seamlessly opens up with the big data ecology, supporting high concurrency and low delay analysis and processing of PB-level data, allowing you to easily and economically use existing BI tools for multi-dimensional analysis, perspective and business exploration of data.

> 

Reviewer: no need for an introduction to hologres. Instead, add an overview of what this tutorial is about and what users can achieve after finishing the tutorial

take a look at http://docs.hologres.io/en/latest/quickstart/quickstart-flink.html

For now, we have one stand-alone version of Hologres to try!

## Data Preparation

1.Data Source

> First,download a large amount of data to get familiar with Hologres. In this blog,we take some flight data from [the USA government example](http://www.transtats.bts.gov/DL_SelectFields.asp?Table_ID=236&DB_Short_Name=On-Time) without a license and therefore assumed to be in the public domain in the United States.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog, we take some flight data from [the USA government example](http://www.transtats.bts.gov/DL_SelectFields.asp?Table_ID=236&DB_Short_Name=On-Time).
```

Github has a repro containing scripts and loaders for ["On-Time Performance"](https://github.com/Percona-Lab/ontime-airline-performance) data.

2.Download the Dataset

If you are in Linux, go with the following script and download the data；

> One thing need to remember, choose the right directory before you start.

Reviewer: One thing ~~need~~ to remember, choose the right directory before you start.

> One thing need to remember, choose the right directory before you start.

Reviewer: what is the right directory? your tutorial should tell users

```
for s in `seq 1987 2018`
do
for m in `seq 1 12`
do
wget https://transtats.bts.gov/PREZIP/On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_1987_present_${s}_${m}.zip
done
done
```

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Hologres/datadownload1.gif)

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Hologres/datadownload2.gif)

> Data is stored in CSV (with , delimiter) format.  Total uncompressed CSV files size is about 79852548 Bytes (about 77GB). 

Reviewer: Data is stored in CSV (with ',' delimiter) format.  Total uncompressed CSV files size is about 79852548 Bytes (about 77GB).

Note: in 1987, only 10,11,12 (3 months) data is available for download.

> Note: the following 14 files fails to upload in Hologres for the invalid byte sequence for encoding.

Reviewer: Note: the following 14 files contains invalid byte sequence for encoding, and thus fails to upload to Hologres.

| NO | FILES |
|---|---|
| 1 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_1.csv |
| 2 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_2.csv |
| 3 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_3.csv |
| 4 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_4.csv |
| 5 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_5.csv |
| 6 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_6.csv |
| 7 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_7.csv |
| 8 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_8.csv |
| 9 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_9.csv |
| 10 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_10.csv |
| 11 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_11.csv |
| 12 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2001_12.csv |
| 13 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2002_1.csv |
| 14 | On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_2002_2.csv |

> we better delete these 14 files by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's delete the 14 files via following commands
```

```
# remove the files in 2001 .12 files in total  
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2001*.csv

# remove the files in 2002_1 and 2002_2 ,2 files in total  
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2002_1.csv
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2002_2.csv
```

3.Unzip the Dataset 

Once download the data, go to the directory and unzip the data with the following script:

```
find . -name '*.zip'-exec unzip {} \；
```

> the following warning might come, [N] is priority:

Reviewer: "[N] is priority" <- what does it mean?

```
#replace readme.html? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: 
```

## Hologres Initialization

> Let's connect Hologres with the following script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's connect to Hologres via psql with the following command.
```

```
PGPASSWORD=[password] psql -U [username] -h [host] -p [port] -d [database]
```

Now you have landed Hologres successfully.

Let's check the database in Hologres and if nothing goes wrong there shoud be no database.

```
\l
```

Let's create some database and check.

```
CREATE DATABASE HOLO_TESTDB；
\l;
```

Since the table we need is quite long let's save it into a file.

> Create a file firstly,then save the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file first, then save as a text file.
```

  Div5WheelsOn text,
  Div5TotalGTime numeric(13,2),
  Div5LongestGTime numeric(13,2),
  Div5WheelsOff text,
  Div5TailNum text,
  trailer integer
);

CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'clustering_key', 'FltYear, FltQuarter, FltMonth');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'segment_key', 'FltYear');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'shard_count', '1');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'bitmap_columns', 'OriginState, DestState, FltDayofMonth, FltDayOfWeek, Carrier');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'dictionary_encoding_columns', 'UniqueCarrier, Carrier, TailNum, Origin, OriginCityName, OriginState, OriginStateName, Dest, DestCityName, DestState, DestStateName, DepTimeBlk, WheelsOff, WheelsOn, ArrTimeBlk, CancellationCode, Div1Airport, Div1WheelsOn, Div1WheelsOff, Div1TailNum, Div2Airport, Div2WheelsOn, Div2WheelsOff, Div2TailNum, Div3Airport, Div3WheelsOn, Div3WheelsOff, Div3TailNum, Div4Airport, Div4WheelsOn, Div4WheelsOff, Div4TailNum, Div5Airport, Div5WheelsOn, Div5WheelsOff, Div5TailNum');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'time_to_live_in_seconds', '31536000');
COMMIT;
```

After you finish the script file,go to the database you have created and execute the script file.

```

> \i /temp/testDDL/data.ddl

Reviewer: don't execute the command within Hologres. It should be executed with psql, like how it's done with copy

```

```
BEGIN
CREATE TABLE
CALL
CALL
CALL
CALL
CALL
CALL
CALL
COMMIT
```

Let's check the table "ontime" we have just executed.

```
\d ontime
```

Now you have prepare one database with one table!

## Data Uploading

Let's upload the data we have prepared early.
Follow me with uploading one csv file just for a quick test( we take keyword "copy ...from... " to upload data here).

```

> \COPY ontime FROM '/temp/testdata_file/On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_1987_10.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER;

Reviewer: execute copy with psql. don't do it inside Hologres

```

Data is uploaded successfully as following.
```
COPY 448620
```

Let's check the data.

```
select * from ontime limit 100;
```

Congratulation：no bug!
Now you could upload the rest in one time (374 files in total)
Note: mutiole csv files should be uploaded in 5 minutes by the following script:

```
cat /temp/*.csv |PGPASSWORD=[] psql -U [user] -h [host] -p [port] -d [database] -c 'copy ontime from stdin CSV HEADER'
```

you can also upload the data seperately by the following script:

```
\COPY ontime FROM 'temp/On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_(1987_present)_1987_10.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER;

> ```

Reviewer: remove

 2006 | 2009 | YV      |  113955 |     10108662.00 | 88.71
 2006 | 2009 | XE      |  152431 |     13458963.00 | 88.30
 2003 | 2009 | B6      |  107648 |      9348421.00 | 86.84
 2003 | 2006 | RU      |  126733 |     10062857.00 | 79.40
 2003 | 2009 | FL      |  159064 |     12615310.00 | 79.31
 2003 | 2009 | EV      |  237727 |     18702934.00 | 78.67
 2003 | 2009 | OO      |  257069 |     19904419.00 | 77.43
 2002 | 2009 | MQ      |  397504 |     30761380.00 | 77.39
 1987 | 2009 | CO      |  668965 |     51398024.00 | 76.83
 1987 | 2009 | AA      | 1183353 |     90889033.00 | 76.81
 2004 | 2009 | OH      |  160071 |     12202011.00 | 76.23
 1987 | 2009 | UA      | 1164271 |     88316448.00 | 75.86
 1987 | 2009 | NW      |  705335 |     51055143.00 | 72.38
 1987 | 2000 | TW      |  274399 |     19072728.00 | 69.51
 1987 | 2009 | AS      |  205613 |     14290155.00 | 69.50
 1987 | 2005 | HP      |  220228 |     15197047.00 | 69.01
 1987 | 2009 | DL      | 1127541 |     77564276.00 | 68.79
 1988 | 2009 | US      |  949609 |     64507958.00 | 67.93
 1987 | 2009 | WN      | 1045913 |     69074537.00 | 66.04
(19 rows)

Time: 167.635 ms
```

You could try more in Hologres!

> ## Commands in Linux and SQL

Reviewer: what's this section about?
